Add teams with the CLI (#2822)
astronomer/docs: astro/cli/astro-workspace-team-add.md

hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

:::info
The behavior and format of this command differs depending on what Astronomer product you're using. Use the following tabs to change between product contexts.
:::

Add a Team to your current Workspace and grant it a Workspace role.

<Tabs
defaultValue="astro"
values={[
{label: 'Astro', value: 'astro'},
{label: 'Software', value: 'software'},
]}>

<TabItem value="astro">

## Usage

```sh
astro workspace team add <options>
```

If you run the command with no options specified, the CLI lists Teams in your Organization and prompts you to select one. It then adds the Team to your cuurent Workspace with the Workspace Member role.

To add a Team to a specific Workspace, specify the Workspace using the `--workspace-id` flag. To find a Workspace ID, run `astro workspace list`.

> ## Options

Author: ```suggestion
#### Options
```

| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--team-id`      | The ID for the Team to add to a Workspace. Bypasses the selection prompt. | Any valid Team ID. You can find available Team ID's by running `astro organization team list`.                                         |
| `-r`, `--role`   | The Team's role in the Workspace.                                         | Possible values are `WORKSPACE_MEMBER`, `WORKSPACE_AUTHOR`, `WORKSPACE_OPERATOR`, or `WORKSPACE_OWNER`. Default is `WORKSPACE_MEMBER`. |
| `--workspace-id` | The ID for the Workspace where you want to add the Team.                  | Any valid Workspace ID. Default is the current Workspace context you are working in.                                                   |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="software">

Manage Astronomer Software [Teams](https://docs.astronomer.io/software/import-idp-groups).

> #### Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Usage
```

| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--team-id`      | Specifies the Team ID to add to a Workspace and bypasses the Team selection prompt. | Any valid Team ID.                                                                                                                     |
| `-r`, `--role`   | The Team's role in the Workspace.                                                   | Possible values are `WORKSPACE_MEMBER`, `WORKSPACE_AUTHOR`, `WORKSPACE_OPERATOR`, or `WORKSPACE_OWNER`. Default is `WORKSPACE_MEMBER`. |
| `--workspace-id` | The Workspace ID where you want to add the Team.                                    | Any valid Workspace ID. Default is the current Workspace context you are working in.                                                  |

> You can retrieve a Team's ID in one of two ways:

Reviewer: I don't love having this outside of the possible options since it only pertains to one option. Could we add this to the "Valid Values" table instead as a brief sentence?

- To find a Team ID using the Astro CLI, run `astro organization team list`.
- To find a Team ID in the Cloud UI, click your Workspace name, then click **Organization Settings** > **Access Management** > **Teams**. Search for your Team in the **Teams** table and copy its **ID**. The ID should look something like `clk17xqgm124q01hkrgilsr49`.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="software">

Manage Astronomer Software [Teams](https://docs.astronomer.io/software/import-idp-groups).

#### Usage

If you want to add a team to the current Workspace with the default role of Workspace Member, you can also run `astro workspace team add`. This command lists the available Teams in your Orgranization and prompts you to enter the serial number for team you want to add. 

```sh

> astro workspace team <options>

Reviewer: Did we confirm whether the behavior is identical on Software? There are quite a few commands that have autoprompts on Astro but not on Software.

Author: reverting back to what we previously had in the docs for software.

hide_table_of_contents: true
---

> :::info

Reviewer 2: missing imports 
```suggestion
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

:::info
```

> :::info
> 
> The behavior and format of this command differs depending on what Astronomer product you're using. Use the following tabs to change between product contexts.
> 
> Add a Team to your current Workspace and grant it a Workspace role.
> 
> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::info

The behavior and format of this command differs depending on what Astronomer product you're using. Use the following tabs to change between product contexts.

:::

Add a Team to your current Workspace and grant it a Workspace role.
```

> <Tabs
> defaultValue="astro"
> values={[
> {label: 'Astro', value: 'astro'},
> {label: 'Software', value: 'software'},
> ]}>
> <TabItem value="astro">

Reviewer 2: small nitpick
```suggestion
<Tabs
    defaultValue="astro"
    values={[
        {label: 'Astro', value: 'astro'},
        {label: 'Software', value: 'software'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="astro">
```

## Usage

```sh
astro workspace team add <options>
```

> To find a Workspace ID using the Astro CLI, run `astro workspace list`.
> 
> If you want to add a team to the current Workspace with the default role of Workspace Member, you can also run `astro workspace team add`. This command lists the available Teams in your Orgranization and prompts you to enter the serial number for team you want to add.

Reviewer 2: just some reordering
```suggestion
If you want to add a team to the current Workspace with the default role of Workspace Member, you can also run `astro workspace team add`. This command lists the available Teams in your Orgranization and prompts you to enter the serial number for team you want to add. 

If you want to add a team to a specific Workspace, you can use the `--workspace-id` flag. To find a Workspace ID, run `astro workspace list`.
```

You can retrieve a Team's ID in one of two ways:

- To find a Team ID using the Astro CLI, run `astro organization team list`.

> - To find a Team ID in the Cloud UI, click your Workspace name, then click **Organization Settings** > **Access Management** > **Teams**. Search for your Team in the **Teams** table and copy its **ID**. The ID should look something like `clk17xqgm124q01hkrgilsr49`.

Reviewer 2: I feel like this should be after the table ? because till now, we have not introduced the option `team-id`

| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--team-id`      | Specifies the Team ID to add to a Workspace and bypasses the Team selection prompt. | Any valid Team ID.                                                                                                                     |
| `-r`, `--role`   | The Team's role in the Workspace.                                                   | Possible values are `WORKSPACE_MEMBER`, `WORKSPACE_AUTHOR`, `WORKSPACE_OPERATOR`, or `WORKSPACE_OWNER`. Default is `WORKSPACE_MEMBER`. |
| `--workspace-id` | The Workspace ID where you want to add the Team.                                    | Any valid Workspace ID. Default is the current Workspace context you are working in.                                                  |
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="software">

Manage Astronomer Software [Teams](https://docs.astronomer.io/software/import-idp-groups).

> To find a Team ID using the Astro CLI, run `astro organization team list`.
> 
> If you want to add a team to the current Workspace with the default role of Workspace Member, you can also run `astro workspace team add`. This command lists the available Teams in your Orgranization and prompts you to enter the serial number for team you want to add. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add a Team to your current Workspace and grant it a Workspace role.
```

> ## Usage
> 
> This command includes several subcommands.
> 
> ### astro workspace team add
> 
> Add a Team to a Workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: this section might not be required now.

#### Usage

```sh
astro workspace team <options>
```

You can retrieve a Team's ID in one of two ways:

- Access the Team in the Software UI and copy the last part of the URL in your web browser. For example, if your Team is located at `BASEDOMAIN.astronomer.io/w/cx897fds98csdcsdafasdot8g7/team/cl4iqjamcnmfgigl4852flfgulye`, your Team ID would be `cl4iqjamcnmfgigl4852flfgulye`.

> - Run `astro workspace team list` and copy the value in the ID column

Reviewer 2: oh you mean for Software? may be, I  don't have access to a Software setup as of now.

## Usage

```sh

> astro workspace team add <team-id> <role> <workspace-id>

Reviewer 2: I think the norm for the topmost command is the default command. Referring to `astro deploy` here. And the reason is, astro workspace team add also works just fine . I have added detail in the comment below.
```suggestion
astro workspace team add <options>
```

```

To find a Team ID using the Astro CLI, run `astro organization team list`.

To find a Team ID in the Cloud UI, click your Workspace name in the upper left corner, then click **Organization Settings** > **Access Management** > **Teams**. Search for your Team in the **Teams** table and copy its **ID**. The ID should look something like `clk17xqgm124q01hkrgilsr49`.

> To find a Workspace ID using the Astro CLI, run `astro workspace list`.
> 

Reviewer 2: Note sure where to add this, but I tested this command and it happens to me.
```suggestion
To find a Workspace ID using the Astro CLI, run `astro workspace list`.

If you want to add a team to the current Workspace with the default role of Workspace Member, you can also run `astro workspace team add`. This command lists the available Teams in your Orgranization and prompts you to enter the serial number for team you want to add.

```

## Options

| Option           | Description                                      | Valid Values                                                                                                                           |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `--role`         | The Team's role in the Workspace.                | Possible values are `WORKSPACE_MEMBER`, `WORKSPACE_AUTHOR`, `WORKSPACE_OPERATOR`, or `WORKSPACE_OWNER`. Default is `WORKSPACE_MEMBER`. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| <team-id>             | Specifies the Team ID to add to a Workspace and bypasses the Team selection prompt | Any valid Team ID |
| `-r`, `--role`         | The Team's role in the Workspace.                | Possible values are `WORKSPACE_MEMBER`, `WORKSPACE_AUTHOR`, `WORKSPACE_OPERATOR`, or `WORKSPACE_OWNER`. Default is `WORKSPACE_MEMBER`. |
```
